= devise_oauth2_authenticatable

== This fork works with Devise 1.1 + Rails 3
Quick tutorial for Devise 1.1 + Rails 3 + devise_oauth2_authenticatable

Set up your Facebook app at http://developers.facebook.com/setup/

Create the Rails app:
  rails new YOUR_APP
  cd YOUR_APP

Add the following lines to your Gemfile:
  gem "oauth2"
  gem "devise", :git => "git://github.com/plataformatec/devise.git"
  gem "devise_oauth2_authenticatable", :git => "git://github.com/jerryluk/devise_oauth2_authenticatable.git"
  
Add the following line to the bottom of config/initializers/devise.rb (it should be fixed, I know, just bare with it for now)

Devise::OAUTH2_CONFIG = YAML.load_file(Rails.root.join('config', 'oauth2_config.yml'))[Rails.env]
  
Run the following commands:
  bundle install
  rails g devise:install
  rails g devise User
  rails g devise:oauth2_authenticatable APP_ID SECRET
  
Your DeviseCreateUsers migration should look like this:
  class DeviseCreateUsers < ActiveRecord::Migration
    def self.up
      create_table(:users) do |t|
        t.database_authenticatable 
        t.rememberable
        t.trackable
        t.oauth2_authenticatable
        t.string :email

        t.timestamps
      end

      add_index :users, :oauth2_uid, :unique => true
    end

    def self.down
      drop_table :users
    end
  end

Make sure user.rb has the following line:
  devise :oauth2_authenticatable, ...
  
Add this to your application_controller.rb:
  before_filter :authenticate_user!
  
Add the sign in/sign out links to your applications.html.erb:
  <% if user_signed_in? %>
    <%= link_to "Sign out", destroy_user_session_path %>
  <% else %>
    <%= link_to_oauth2 "Sign In with Facebook" %>
  <% end %>

The usual stuffs:
  rm public/index.html
  rails db:create
  rails db:migrate
  rails s
  
Navigate your browser to http://localhost:3000, there are many things to fix but you are mostly there!

==
This is the basic framework for an OAuth2 gem for Devise. 

It currently works with FacebookGraph, to get started begin by registering a new application at

  http://developers.facebook.com/setup/
  
  
A generator is provided for creating your oauth yml file

rails g devise:oauth2_authenticatable

Ex: 

rails g devise:oauth2_authenticatable APP_ID SECRET 'email,offline_access,publish_stream'


for more details
  
http://developers.facebook.com/docs/authentication/



It's based on the devise facebook gem provided by grimen

  http://github.com/grimen/devise_facebook_connectable



And uses the example provided in OAuth2 library provided by mbleigh

  http://github.com/intridea/oauth2


DB Migration : 

    add_column :users, :oauth2_uid, :integer, :limit => 8  # BIGINT unsigned / 64-bit int
    add_column :users, :oauth2_token, :string, :limit => 149  # [128][1][20] chars
    add_index :users, :oauth2_uid, :unique => true



Note:

A little souce of confusion when working with Facebook Graph

The api key and secret key are no the same a Facebook Connect/the old API. 

The client id should be your application id and the client_key, should be your API key (not secret key)


== TODO

Write tests : 
  Currently no tests have been written. My bad. 

Add Javascript / token based auth :
  Facebook graph offes a complete authorization solution using javascript and a returned authentication token. Adding optional support for this would complete the Facebook Graph authentication interface. 
  
Generalize for OAuth2:
  Add support for other OAuth2 services. Wrote this specifically for facebook graph, althought configuration arugments should be generalized to support other interfaces. 



Description goes here.

== Note on Patches/Pull Requests
 
* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 bhbryant. See LICENSE for details.
